# Intex
Section 2 Group 6.  BYU Infromation Systems Junior Core.


 
Northwest Labs

Northwest Labs: New Technology Platform

Recommended Next Step

Northwest Labs currently does not have the staff or the expertise to undertake a project of this magnitude. It is recommended that Northwest Labs contract with an outside firm to perform a preliminary analysis and study of our needs and to make a presentation and report to the executive committee. 

This all made sense to the president. The executive committee had authorized this next step and agreed to fund the preliminary analysis. The president hoped that the amount budgeted would be adequate, knowing that it would take quite a bit of work, and that information would need to be gathered in both Seattle and Singapore. The president flipped over to the detailed recommendations portion of the IT director’s report. The IT director had recommended several business/technical consulting firms that Northwest Labs had used in the past. These firms were up-and-coming companies with technical expertise and a good understanding of Northwest Labs’ business. The following excerpt from the report identified the next step:

It is recommended that Northwest Labs engage at least one firm to perform a
preliminary analysis and study of the system requirements to meet the immediate needs of both the Singapore and Seattle offices.  

At the end of the study, your firm will provide a proposal document and make a presentation to the executive committee and other management at Northwest Labs in order to approve the actual development of the system. The proposal document should provide sufficient details so that the technical staff at Northwest Labs can evaluate the feasibility of the new system. Anticipated time schedule and projects costs should be included.

Since Northwest Labs is not prepared to divulge operating costs, a complete cost/benefit analysis will not be required. However, it is expected that cost estimates for the various portions of the project as well as an overall cost for the project would be provided.  

Note: For this project students can assume employees receive $40 per hour and base their “rough” estimates upon that hourly wage.


DELIVERABLE:  Consider your IS junior core team to be the Integrated Solutions, Inc. team assigned to this project. 

The case material contains the background information on Northwest Labs. You are to complete the analysis and develop the requirements for a new system to solve the indicated problems, and to prepare a project report and make a presentation to explain your recommendations for the new system. Your audience (evaluation team) will be the Northwest Labs management team, including the president and the IT director. Assume the audience will have a basic technical understanding of information systems. Both the president and the IT director want to see copies of your project report. The IT director will probably read it in detail while the president will focus on the executive summary and only skim the highlights in the body of the report. The presentation attendees will include both the president and the IT director, the user department managers, and several of the director’s IT project managers. 

NOTE: Students, your solution should include all concepts that were taught during the fall semester in the core classes. 

In all of your work you should use proper tools where appropriate, and provide documentation in your Project Report. Remember that both your report and your presentation should be professional-level work.

Your project plan, schedule and development costs should include the work you are doing this week, as well as additional activities for planning, analysis, design, and implementation that will be needed to complete the project. Even though the work you do this week includes preliminary planning, preliminary analysis and some preliminary design activities, you are only working during this week from notes provided, so your understanding of all the details is sketchy. You will want to include in your project plan time to review, verify and validate your results with the users before proceeding with the detailed development of the new system as well as time for a more thorough analysis of all the detailed requirements. Be sure to also include additional project planning, analysis, and design activities that may be required to complete the project.

Suggestion:  Be sure to balance your work between the details and the “vision.”  You need to provide a good “business case.”  But you also need to have complete and accurate detailed analyses to support it. Good luck. 


CASE INFORMATION

The President and CEO at Northwest Labs Pharmaceutical was anxious to hear the results of a study conducted by the director of IT. A month ago, he had commissioned the director of IT to gather information about the possibility of implementing a new information system. This week the focus was on the company’s growth and the need for some strategic directions on an improved information technology infrastructure. For over 17 years the company had internally developed their own systems that were primarily handled through Microsoft Excel and Microsoft Access. However, over the last year, the overwhelming burden of daily requests for systems modification was getting out of control. It was obvious that it was time to consider implementation of a new system. 

The Company

Northwest Labs Pharmaceutical provides chemical and compound tests for companies needing in-depth assay analysis. An assay analysis is a set of physical, chemical, atomic, and biological tests that are conducted on a chemical compound or drug to determine its characteristics. These tests could include purely laboratory type tests and/or biological tests on live animals. Northwest Labs markets to many different chemical and pharmaceutical companies needing analysis work done on any number of different compounds and drugs. Northwest Labs is a global business with pharmaceutical labs in Singapore and corporate offices located in Seattle. They have been very successful and are known by many large corporations as leaders in pharmaceutical research and testing. 

Due to the reputation that Northwest Labs has developed in the industry, most customers are long-term, and much of the marketing to new pharmaceutical entrants is done via word of mouth by existing customers. Northwest Labs is contracted by these customers to provide testing and various assays and a detailed report of the tests run. The customer first provides the pharmaceutical laboratory, or pharmacology with a compound to be analyzed. The Singapore Pharmacology then takes that compound and schedules and runs numerous assays. The results are returned to the headquarters in Seattle where they are analyzed and final reports are created for the customer. In order to comply with regulation requirements, drug companies must have assay tests with test reports that are conducted by independent pharmacology labs. Hence it is extremely important that the assay tests done by Northwest Labs are precise, well documented, and reported accurately. 
 
Overview of the Business Process

The Seattle office handles all of the administrative duties for Northwest Labs. Sales representatives located in this office contact potential clients and discuss the services that are provided by Northwest Labs. They are also the primary contacts within Northwest Labs for existing clients. When Northwest Labs receives a new customer, these sales representatives enter their information into a local database. Although the clients send all assay orders directly to Singapore, they often contact the Seattle office to receive price quotes, status checks on their orders, and the results from the assays. After the work order is sent to Singapore, Singapore then forwards a copy of the work order to Seattle. The work order is placed in a database and maintained from Seattle. When Seattle receives the results from Singapore, the results are inputted into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Results, consisting of raw test results and analysis reports, for each assay are then sent to the customer. The Seattle office also maintains two catalogs. The Pharmacology Catalog contains summary information on all of the kinds of assays run at Northwest Labs. The Protocol Notebook provides more detailed information on each type of assay. Finally, all invoicing and collections is handled through Seattle. When the results are received in the Seattle office, a worker at the office takes the results and applies a charge to each test. These are inputted into another database, which is used to process both invoices for the customer as well as sales reports for management.

The Singapore office performs all of the testing for Northwest Labs. Because orders largely come by mail, the Singapore office faxes a notice to the client indicating receipt of the work order. Orders are then gathered and the tests are scheduled based on the type of assay required, the amount of the compound, and the due date for the order. The various tests are then run on each compound. Compounds that are found to be “active” are indicated as such and secondary tests can be performed pending customer approval. An active compound is one that had some type of active interaction with another chemical during a test. This type of active interaction may cause undesirable or unknown side effects, thus more tests are usually required to precisely determine the extent of the interactions. Finally, the results of all the tests are transmitted via modem to Seattle. The results are transferred in a text format and then converted back into Excel formats in Seattle.

A workflow of the overall process is given in Figure 1. This figure focuses on the process of receiving work orders, processing work orders, recording results, sending results to the customers, and billing for results. It also illustrates responsibility for publishing the catalogs for the customers to see the services provided by Northwest Labs. The workflow does not include all activities that are also done in Seattle, such as checking on an order status or giving a customer a quote for an assay. Other activities, such as maintaining inventory of items used in Singapore are outside of the scope of this project. 

 
Figure 1. Workflow of business process
  
Current System

The Seattle office has three main servers. The first is the mail server. This computer is a “very old server” that handles all of the incoming and outgoing mail. When the Singapore office transmits the results from the various tests, this is the computer that receives that modem call. This computer also serves as a gateway for the workers to access the Internet.  Up to 40 people can access this server at a given time. This computer is running a version of Windows Server that is no longer supported by Microsoft. The second server is a Print Server used to meet all the printing needs of the Seattle office. It is a Silicon Graphics system running UNIX. The third server holds the Access database and serves as a repository for the vast number of Excel files used to record and transmit information about the results of tests. This is an older Dell PowerEdge server – running on the Intel Xeon architecture. It has very limited random access memory and disk storage is critically low. Currently, about 50 people access this server at a given time. A total of 115 desktop computers and laptops are currently connected to the network and have access to these servers.

Most of the equipment in Singapore is scientific and would not be considered for upgrade.
However, there is a main server that holds the scheduling spreadsheet files as well as the results from the day’s assays. It is also showing its age and runs SuSE Linux. This computer acts as the mail server, print server, file server, and Internet gateway. It is through this computer that test results are sent to Seattle. There are a total of 10 desktop computers connected to this server.
 Business Strategy

Northwest Labs relies heavily on retaining existing customers and attracting new customers from entrants to the pharmaceutical field. Because of the growth of the industry and the success Northwest Labs has seen, Northwest Labs is looking forward to a future of continued profitability. Northwest Labs is committed to maintaining their customer base by continuing to improve the service provided to its customers.

A major change in the industry that has affected Northwest Labs is the tremendous growth of technology. With the growth of the Internet and other technological advances, more and more businesses are demanding faster service and online assistance. Despite the growth Northwest Labs still experiences, the lack of information technology and support personnel threatens Northwest Labs continued success. The key elements of Northwest Labs’ business strategy are as follows:

Improved quality, reliability and consistency of reports/data. Northwest Labs is dedicated to supplying their customers with a very detailed report on each compound analyzed. The pharmaceutical labs in Singapore are committed to testing the compounds thoroughly, ensuring that there are no inconsistencies or deficiencies before they send the results to Seattle. The Seattle office then prepares the reports for the customers.

Improved speed and responsiveness. Speed is very important if Northwest Labs is to continue to grow and succeed in this market. The process of obtaining an order from the customer, performing the various tests, and returning the results to the main office in Seattle is very time consuming. However, with the growing number of new entrants into the pharmaceutical field, the need for quicker delivery and response is paramount.  

Ability to produce quotes. Northwest Labs has been consistently concerned about the accuracy of quotes. The sales representatives at Seattle struggle to provide quotes to the customer. Often, a customer is interested in Northwest Labs’ services, but because the cost of performing tests varies with the compound, sales representatives are unable to provide accurate quotes to the client.  Occasionally, a sales representative at Seattle can contact a manager in Singapore and get a reasonable estimate, but because of the time and resources this process takes, it is rare that quotes are ever provided.

Increased Efficiency. Northwest Labs always looks for new ways to become more efficient. When Northwest Labs was first created, all testing was performed at Seattle. However, in order to provide a more efficient service, practically all of the testing was transferred to Singapore. By operating in Singapore, Northwest Labs is able to acquire materials much quicker and with fewer governmental restrictions than it could in the United States. Also, labor in Singapore is much cheaper than in the US. These reasons and others made moving the lab to Singapore much more efficient. Since the transfer, Northwest Labs has been able to provide quicker service with a high quality. Unwilling to relax, managers are constantly looking for ways to improve efficiency both within and between offices.

Improved communication with customers. The managers realize that it is the customer that keeps Northwest Labs in business. Northwest Labs relies on both repeat business from satisfied existing customers and new business from referred customers. Therefore, in addition to having sales representatives specifically trained to contact and market to customers, Northwest Labs recently purchased a web site to provide valuable and professional information to customers and prospects. Current and potential customers can now access information about Northwest Labs and its structure as well as send emails to Northwest Labs. Improved communication is a high priority. Northwest has been toying with the idea of increasing its contact with its customers with additional Web portals. 

Improved planning/reporting capabilities and scheduling. One of the main duties in the Seattle office is to associate the test results received from Singapore with work orders on file and then send the final test results to each customer. Seattle also tracks the current status of a work order by calling the Singapore office and requesting information on that order. In addition, the Singapore office is very concerned with efficient scheduling of the various tests of differing compounds. As planning and scheduling becomes more efficient, Northwest Labs is able to complete a greater number of work orders at a faster rate. They are also able to better meet customer needs.


Current Processes Details

Receive Compound
Customers send orders and the related compounds directly to Singapore. When the work order is received in Singapore, it is manually entered into the Compound Receipt Log. When entered, each compound is assigned two numbers. First, the compound is assigned a unique six digit numeric Northwest Labs Test (LT) number. This is an internal number designed to track each test of a particular compound Northwest Labs has worked with.

Because a separate compound sample is sent for each requested assay, it is common for one work order to have several samples of the same compound. Each sample of a given compound is assigned what is called a compound sequence code—an integer value that uniquely identifies a sample from others of the same compound. For example, if a customer is requesting a second set of tests on a particular compound and there were five samples sent to support the tests on the prior work order and the current work order requires three tests on this compound, the sequence numbers for the three supplied samples would be 6, 7, and 8. Other information captured on this log includes compound name, quantity in milligrams, date arrived, received by, date due, appearance of each compound sample, weight indicated by the client and molecular mass. A label for the LT number is created and put on the top of each tube received. A confirmation of receipt of the compounds is then faxed or emailed to the client and the date and time the confirmation is sent is recorded in the log.

The compound is then entered into the Compound Weighing and Dispensing Log (manual log). This log contains the same information as the Compound Receipt Log, as well as the actual weight (entered only if the weight indicated by the client appears wrong) and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), which is entered for animal assays. The MTD information will be utilized to determine the appropriate initial dose for most of the animal tests. 

Each day, a list of compounds received is also entered into a spreadsheet for tracking purposes. The spreadsheet is essentially a duplicate of the information maintained on the Compound Receipt Log, only in electronic format. Since any given compound sample may require several individual tests, the spreadsheet program is used to track these various tests which are required to complete the order. The spreadsheet is also used to help find (with an electronic search) older tests. The spreadsheet contains information about the cost of conducting each test (the cost of materials required to complete the test plus the hourly wage of the employees who work on the assay times their wage) and the base price (unadjusted for customer discounts, etc.) charged to the customer. This list is printed and airmailed daily (with photocopies of the work orders customers submit with compounds) to the head of pharmacology billings and receivables in Seattle.

Maintain Work Orders
The head of pharmacology billings and receivables receives the work orders from Singapore and enters the new work orders into the Microsoft Access order system. The order indicates the customer information such as name, address, contact information, payment information, as well as any comments (specific instructions) the customer gives Northwest Labs. In the comment section, the head of pharmacology billings and receivables also records any special situations or requests, such as whether or not the customer needs the order rushed. When entering the order, the head of pharmacology billings and receivables uses the order and looks up the customer in the database. At this time, she indicates whether or not that customer qualifies for any special discount or treatment based on historical order volume and information in customer records. If any special circumstances or discounts are indicated in the comment data of the work order, the head of pharmacology billings and receivables verifies these with the sales department before applying the discount to the order. 

For new clients, generally the customer information is entered into the database by a sales agent prior to the order being placed. In some cases, the information is inadequate and she needs to work with someone in sales to complete the customer information. In any event, she will gather and enter this information quickly so as not to have a negative impact on entering and tracking the work orders. 

Schedule Assays (i.e. Tests on the compounds)
After all of the compounds have been received and labeled, the various tests need to be scheduled. There are six common types of tests that are performed on about 70% of the compounds. These are Biochemical Pharmacology (BP), DiscoveryScreen® (DS), ImmunoScreen® (IS), ProfilingScreen® (PF), PharmaScreen® (PS), and CustomScreen™ (CS). One of these, Biochemical Pharmacology, constitutes 25% of all assays. Each type assay of has a detailed description of how the test is performed (the protocol) and an estimated number of days to complete the assay from time it is received. 

An assay comprises several individual tests. Some of these tests are required to perform the assay while others are conditional. Required tests must be performed to compete an assay. Conditional tests are tests that must be run depending on the outcome of other tests. For example, a required test may have a result that is unclear without additional tests. When this is the case, the conditional tests must be performed before the assay can be complete. A customer may specify that any of the conditional tests of an assay be run regardless of whether the trigger conditions are met. Each kind of test may require a set of materials that are consumed in the test. Some materials are used in many different kinds of test and different tests consume different amounts of the various materials. Taking into account these factors, managers in Singapore schedule tests to minimize setup requirements and to complete orders on time.

One worker in Singapore has developed an Excel program, which greatly aids in this scheduling process. The program determines which compounds should be included when an assay is run. Managers can then use this program to help identify the sequence of tests to be run on each compound. This program helps managers schedule the tests, but it does not build a schedule or track the progress of the testing. The actual scheduling of the work is done manually based on information gleaned from the Excel program. For example, say on a given Monday morning 200 tests need to be finished by the end of the week. Entering the information about the 200 tests into Excel, the program will indicate which of the tests utilize the same equipment, procedures, and chemicals. Those tests can then all be scheduled at approximately the same time period so that only a single setup is required. 

Solubilize, Prepare and Dispense Compound
After the compound is received, weighed and scheduled for testing, the compound is solubilized and dispensed into test tubes based on the number and types of assay tests to be run. Since a customer may want a given compound to be tested with several different types of assays, the compound is weighed and divided into appropriate concentrations and quantities for the various tests.  Each test tube is labeled with concentration and type of test to be run. The LT number applies to all test tubes, plus a Test Tube number is appended to the LT number to uniquely identify each test tube and the assay test to be done on that test tube. Labels are created for the test tubes, and this information is also entered into the spreadsheet. 

Run Assays
The various tests are then performed. Numeric results from the tests are generated by test equipment as either ASCII text files, comma‐separated‐variable files, or tab‐separated variable files. This format facilitates future numerical analysis that many customers require. Many of the results also contain qualitative, judgment information and comments that are stored as text files. As a result, each test may have both a qualitative result file as well as a quantitative result file. 

Transmit Results to Seattle
The results for each assay are sent by email to an employee in Seattle. The email message contains information relevant to the particular assay such as customer name, LT number, sequence code, assay type and compound name. Each of the files that are produced during the assay are attached to the email. Approximately 10,000 compounds are tested annually. The files for each compound tested are between 5K and 10K in size. The file names always begin with the LT number and sequence code and descriptive name that indicates the file’s contents. In addition to the test results, the Seattle office also receives a separate file containing a detailed breakdown of charges for each assay on the work order.

Process Data Reports
Once the files reach Seattle, they are categorized and stored by client and work order. This process is accomplished automatically when an employee saves the attached test results from the emails into a particular folder on the network. A program in Excel reads the file names, uses the LT number to look up the client, then moves the test result to the proper folder on the network drive based on the client name, compound’s LT number, and the sample’s sequence code.

In addition, a detailed numerical Data Report for the work order is compiled. This report describes the results of each test performed, includes the raw data, but does not include detailed analyses. When complete, the report is exported as a PDF file. This file is stored on the network drive under the folder for the client with the test result files. It is also emailed to the technical director of pharmacology for use in writing the Summary Report.

Process Summary Report
A written Summary Report, which presents significant findings and correlations between assay test results, is prepared by the Technical Director of Pharmacology. She takes the results of all of the tests on a work order and summarizes the findings. She includes the correlations and other significant findings that she notices and produces the Summary Report. This report is save as a PDF file in the client’s folder on the network drive. Once this report is complete, the technical director of pharmacology’s assistant prints two copies (one in color and one in black and white) of the Summary Report and the Data Report. The black and white copy is filed for future reference. The color copy is bound and mailed to the client with a CD containing the two PDF files as well as the files holding the individual test results. As a courtesy, the two PDF files are emailed to the client to reduce the time that the client waits to receive the results.

Process Bills
Although assay test cost and pricing information is received from Singapore at the same time the assay results are received, the calculation of the detailed charges is not yet fully automated. The head of pharmacology billings and receivables must manually calculate many of these charges for specific assay tests when processing bills each Thursday.

The head of pharmacology billings and receivables enters the work order charges into the Microsoft Access work order tracking system. Each invoice specifies the date payment is due, an early payment date, and an appropriate discount for early payment. These parameters are calculated using information from the customer record. If the customer has advanced money, the invoice shows the reduction in the amount of the advance. Invoice information is maintained so that the system can track when each invoice is sent and which work order it applies to. A running balance is maintained for each client. When payment is made, the information is used to update the customer balance (and is posted to the accounting system).

Prior to the invoice being sent, the customer name, invoice, data report and summary report are checked and then verified by another individual before being sent to the customer. When invoices are prepared, if there are multiple work orders complete for a particular client, they are billed on separate invoices.

This cost and pricing information in the Microsoft Access database is then utilized to produce monthly sales and profitability reports by sales agent, by customer, and by type of Assay. These reports go to management and the marketing directors.

Maintain and Publish Catalog
The Company currently maintains a Pharmacology Services Catalog in Ventura Publisher. The catalog is organized by assay type assay name. It includes information on each kind of assay, a description of the procedure (the protocol), required and conditional tests, a list of the materials used to conduct the tests, and literature references for more detailed information on the assay. Although the current cost of materials is maintained, it is not included in the assay catalog.

Concerns about the aging architecture

• Lack of data integrity – Because most of the logs are kept manually, mistakes often occur. Manual logs include the Compound Receipt Log, the Compound Weighing, and Dispensing Log. These are then entered into Microsoft Excel and emailed to Seattle. Then values are manually transferred to Microsoft Access to track the work order. The scheduling of the assays as well as results for these assays are kept in Microsoft Excel as well as in text files. Results are emailed to Seattle for inclusion in final reports. Because of the number of transfers from one system to another, there are often mistakes in data.

• No confirmation with customers of assays ordered and cost – After Singapore receives an order and schedules that order for testing, customers must be notified of the progress of their order. While testing continues, the cost also is adjusted from the original price quote depending on which conditional tests are needed to complete the assay. It is extremely important to be able to track those changes and inform the customer. Customers should be able to track the progress of their orders as they go through the various tests. Many customers are on tight schedules with drug development and approval projects, and they often request information about the status and progress of the tests. 

• No easy ability to generate price quotes – Although the generation of sales has been a strength for Northwest Labs, it is becoming increasingly important to give the customers accurate price quotes. Sales representatives currently rely solely on comparisons with similar historical requests and associated costs for quote generation. Customers are beginning to demand more accurate and up‐to‐date pricing quotes. The primary obstacle to achieving this is slow and difficult communication between Seattle to Singapore.

• Delivery schedule not adequately communicated to customers – Communication obstacles between offices also restrict the availability of order delivery schedule information. Customers are often left unaware of the delivery schedule for their orders. This is becoming increasingly unacceptable.

• No capability to forecast revenues/cash receipts from work orders – It is very difficult for the sales team to predict the cost of each assay order. Therefore, price adjustments cannot be made until the final cost is received from the lab after the work order is complete.
Although the costs are known as the order is processed, the pricing manager is unable to keep in constant contact with the Singapore office in order to adjust prices. This leads to a reduced ability to forecast revenues from orders in process.

• High cost of processing back orders – Managers in Singapore go through a very rigorous process to verify that all orders are processed in an efficient manner. Often this means splitting up orders and doing parts of one order with parts of other orders. When a certain test is difficult to schedule or a customer needs an order within a certain time period, the time required to notify the lab and have them revise their production schedule is very costly and causes inefficiencies to arise in the production schedule.

• Difficulty communicating order status with customers – When a certain test is difficult to schedule or materials are not available for testing, customers are not always contacted in a prompt manner. Many times, by the time customers are contacted, the order has already moved ahead.

• Duplication of effort – Northwest Labs uses different tracking systems to track orders, schedules, results, and invoicing. Data is often transferred from one system to another manually. Also, because the system is prone to errors, manual logs are sometimes used to recreate entries that have become corrupted or lost. No current method of data validation is in place.

• No purchasing replenishment system – Managers in the labs in Singapore are careful to track and order materials promptly when they are getting short on supplies. At times demand is not tracked carefully enough causing a back order of raw materials and a slowdown of production. 

• Lack of concurrent delivery of all results and invoicing – Process reports and invoicing are kept in completely separate databases. Problems sometimes arise when an invoice is delivered before or after the results. Understandably, customers are generally not pleased to receive an invoice for a completed assay before they receive the report of the results.

• Difficulty in maintaining current systems – Many Northwest Labs’ current systems were created by employees and managers who are now busy in other roles. The company is dependent upon these employees for system maintenance, but they struggle to find time and energy to keep the systems maintained.

• Lack of trained support personnel – When issues arise with current systems, only a select few, including the programmer, are fully versed in the intricacies of the program. Getting in contact with and scheduling these personnel is becoming increasingly difficult.

• Lack of uniformity of reports – Each of the different type of assays run by Northwest Labs has its own method of collecting data samples. These results are tabulated and reports are generated individually for the different types of assays. In order to provide a more professional appearance to the reports for their customers, Northwest Labs would like to make these reports more uniform.

• Reports are not user friendly – The reports generated by Northwest Labs are naturally very technical in nature. Full results are always created, but clients are often interested only in the success/failure of a certain compound. Understanding the reports and locating relevant information can become burdensome for the client.

• Inability to provide electronic results to clients for all data – With the growth of technology, more and more customers are doing business transactions and communication online. To better serve their customers, Northwest Labs recently put up a general information only website. However, more customers are requesting access to past reports via some kind of online portal. Northwest Labs currently lacks the ability to provide this service to customers.

• Inability to easily produce ad‐hoc reports – As industry changes and different managing techniques are exercised, management often needs specialized reports that do not have a standard. When requests for specialized reports come through, managers must find a way to create those reports manually from existing reports. This method is very time‐consuming for the manager.

• Lack of dated archival test protocols – The labs in Singapore perform exhaustive tests on approximately 10,000 compounds per year. The information for each of these tests is stored individually by order. Because of limited space on their current computers, older data is archived to provide storage space for current orders. Although archival information is available, it is time consuming to access the information when requested.
 New System Requirements

After meeting with the management team, the president took a walk around the Seattle office. As he watched the employees going about their daily jobs, he noticed the difficulty caused by their current systems. One of the biggest problems was the lack of easy communications between Seattle and Singapore. Live conversations via Skype or Google chat were very inconvenient due to the time differential. The transfer of data via email was also somewhat troublesome. The systems in Singapore and Seattle were never in sync, so neither place had current information about customers, work orders, or tests. The president went back to the corner office to read through the recommendations made in the IT’s director’s report. The following excerpt from the executive study highlights the important points of his recommendations.

In order to resolve the current needs of the company, any solution should address three areas:
•	System requirements for Singapore
•	System requirements for Seattle
•	Communication and synchronization between Singapore and Seattle

System Requirements for Singapore

Since the Singapore facility actually does the work of the business, i.e. conducting the assay tests for customers, it needs to have a system for scheduling and tracking work orders. In other words, a new system is needed to handle the administrative business functions. 

It does not make sense to change the scientific equipment or programs that are used to run the assay tests. Those programs contain very specific capabilities for scientific and medical evaluations. The decision not to change those programs implies that the output of those programs will remain in the same format. The ASCII text outputs and spreadsheets must be stored and indexed for easy access and searches. 

It also is not required to build a sophisticated assay test scheduling system at this point in time. It is recommended that the more urgent problems of tracking work orders (in order to provide better service and information to our clients) be addressed first. Scheduling the various tests is not currently a difficult task, and the time required for a project to build a sophisticated, automated scheduling system is not warranted at this juncture. However, the system should be able to support the manual scheduling of work by sorting and printing out lists of assay tests scheduled for a given week. The workflow of the Singapore office is organized on a week by week basis. The tracking of the work order as it progresses through the various tests is also important. 

The new Singapore Work Order System should include the following administrative functions: 
1.	Maintain Work Order Information (with primary focus on the compounds to be tested and the scheduling of tests on the compounds).
2.	Keep track of the Work Order Schedule (tests on the compounds--when tests are scheduled, when they are complete, when tests must be rerun, additional recommended tests (and customer approval), and so forth). 
3.	Provide a capability to store the test results in their raw format, but have them indexed to the compounds and work orders. 

System Requirements for Seattle

The focus of the activities in Seattle is oriented primarily towards serving Northwest Labs’ customers, and, of course, producing company performance reports. Specifically, the system should include the following:
1.	Provide Customer Support – quotes, work order status, billing, discounts, payments, customer report, customer work order reports, etc.
2.	Maintain work orders – progress, pricing (correlated with quotes and discounts), updates for additional tests and elimination of tests, etc.
3.	Support Sales Activities – quotes, performance reports, profitability reports by various categories, etc.
4.	Maintain and report on assay tests – store and index raw data, store and index summary data, generate informative reports, etc.
5.	Maintain and publish catalogs – maintain protocol information, and compound information, etc.

Communication and synchronization between Singapore and Seattle

One of the most critical needs is to keep the information synchronized between Singapore and Seattle. The problems identified in the study illustrate that there is a major need for communication between the offices. Communication is required for quotes, status reporting, and recommendations for additional tests, backorders, retests, and so forth as listed in the detailed report. Due to the time differential, real‐time communications are not necessary. But daily interchanges, with a technique for tracking communication items and prioritizing work order changes, are necessary. Obviously, it is also necessary to keep work orders and other system information more synchronized than is currently done. All this should be done “automatically” with standard procedures so that changes and rework are not exception conditions but fit into a standard work procedure.


